# dMeter

dMeter- dMRV Decentralized Measurement, Reporting and Verification (dMRV) of Regenerative Actions Fund Use Funds collected will be used to incentivize collaboration between the organizations identified in the creation of this dMRV. NFT Function Funders receive an NFT in return for their funding. The NFTs below a 100 matic funding level will not get additional functionality from their NFT. NFTs above the 100 matic funding level will get access to a collective Discord. This Discord is filled with a collection of people from all of the organizations described below. By being part of this Discord NFT holders will be able to influence the development of the surveillance system. ReFi Intro Our environment provides many benefits to humans (such as clean air, water, and productive soil), these are called Ecosystem Services. The quantity of natural assets which provide these ecosystem services (such as geology, soil, air, water, and biomass) are referred to as Natural Capital. By putting a numeric value on ecosystem services and natural capital, market-based pricing and coordination mechanisms can be used to determine the monetary value of them. Regenerative Finance (ReFi) is the process of using various forms of capital to drive systematic, sustainable, and positive change for all stakeholders. It leverages natural capital currencies and other tokenized assets for the preservation of life and ecological health. Internalizing the externalities and realizing the true value of these assets can allow us to preserve and regenerate the biosphere. Allowing us to escape a system of exploitation leading towards scarcity, and instead creating new systems that function in regeneration leading towards abundance. The most commonly known ReFi token used currently, is carbon credits.\
Carbon Credits There are main types of carbon credits: carbon avoidance, emission reduction and carbon dioxide removal. Carbon avoidance is when an organization is paid to not do an action that would produce CO2, such as cutting down a forest. This is the most common carbon credit type. This is often classified under the emission reduction credit. These credits are produced when an entity reduces the emissions they were originally producing. Carbon dioxide removal is the second type of carbon credit. Carbon removal is when an organization is paid to do an action that would remove CO2 from our atmosphere, like planting a forest. Both types of credits must have their actions go through a measurement, reporting and verification (MRV) process by a third party. When purchasing credits entities typically go through a marketplace with intermediaries connecting the producer of credits and buyers. One such intermediary is Verra, which Toucan uses to bridge their credits onto the blockchain. Broadening Scope If carbon credits were used to offset all CO2 impacts without addressing other ecosystem services (such as biodiversity, soil quality) and social rights, we would have failed in building systems that align with the preservation and the regeneration of the biosphere. Properly designing carbon credits and other types of credits can lead to co-benefits of these other ecosystem services. MRV of these ecosystem services and social rights is difficult, as well as properly valuing them. However, organizations are already creating MRV methodologies that can be utilized (such as Regen Network, BasinDAO, and Avano). MRV Intro MRV consists of three distinct features, all of which are vital to conveying legitimacy of regenerative projects (such as tree planting) to stakeholders. Monitoring is the process of measuring the total ecosystem and social services provided by the project. When measuring data is collected through satellite, IOT, georeferenced imagery from boots on the ground, as well as surveys. Reporting involves describing the methodologies that were used to collect and analyze the data, as well as potential biases and any assumptions that went into the data collection. Verification refers to the review process involving a third party that was utilized to ensure the validity of the uploaded data and methodologies.\
Problem There are a few centralized methodologies that exist for creating credits, however few regenerative projects have the financial resources to implement or comply with them. If they do, the third parties that provide these MRV methods utilize them infrequently with little or no personal connection to the area they are monitoring. With the MRV methods currently utilized there are gaps in information, and the data backing these projects can vary significantly in precision, magnitude, and quality. Through centralization, projects are siloed and left to stand on their own. Meanwhile, overly high transaction costs to utilize existing MRV methodologies limits participation from the many decentralized projects doing regenerative action (ie. soil carbon). Without proof that they have been able to complete accreditation through the methodologies, these projects find it difficult for funders to provide them with capital. This especially impacts marginalized communities. Without coordination and cooperation with MRV, it will be difficult for regenerative projects to scale.

Solution Decentralized measurement, reporting and verification (dMRV) means that no single entity will own, manage or regulate how MRV is done. Instead a collective of people from many different organizations can build upon and improve this dMRV system. For current accreditation standards a combination of on the ground data collection, satellite sensing and IOT devices are used to back the credits. Utilizing web3 mentality, trust minimized data collection methods can be created. An example of this is to write open codes for actions that used to be performed by humans, like detecting a tree and the species of tree it is. Other data collection technologies can become integrated into this system as they become standard in the future. Once the data is collected open source reporting and verification methodologies can be utilized to analyze the data. Entities that collect the data and create the analysis methodologies are paid each time data is used and an analysis done. This inspires entrepreneurs to build specialized dMRV services which can benefit further regenerative projects. The entire dMRV allows for standardization, trustlessness, immutability, transparency, and open accessibility. This paves the way for decentralized data backed credits. These credits are tied to a specific regenerative action and entity who carried out the action continuously updated over time as more data is gathered. This data and the methodologies used to analyze it is stored permanently and immutably through technology such as IPFS, Arweave etc. The collectors of this data are the owners of it, allowing for sensitive data to be fully controlled by its owner. The dMRV would assist regenerative projects across blockchains and be interoperable with any new blockchain that came into existence. Every entity that is involved with this dMRV helps to iteratively improve upon it. With this, local communities can become more deeply involved with how the regenerative projects they carry out go through the dMRV process as well as tap into funding that was not previously available to carry out these projects. Along with that the diversity and veracity of Natural Capital assets being valued can exponentially increase. We are in the beginning of this dMRV process and countless building blocks are still missing. There will be problems and limitations that we encounter, but as these gradually get addressed it will become possible to use this new set of lego building blocks to build things that we can hardly imagine today. What is Needed Data

In this dMRV everything is open to where there is only one final layer of trust- the data itself. Trust minimized data collection can be done through a combination of remote sensing, IoT, and human sensing (such as with smart-phones). The data collected is stored permanently and immutably through current technology such as IPFS and Arweave. By multiple data sources backing up that a regenerative action has occurred, more accurate calculations can be created. When one of those inputs is inaccurate, the other data sources can openly show a dispute. When a dispute arises, the stakeholders of the dMRV system can confirm or deny the accuracy of the data. Scoring this data for quality, resolution, and temporal frequency can enable any entity utilizing the dMRV to compare the data sources they pay for. Allowing them to quickly choose the best dataset for their needs. Through this, data becomes highly available as many organizations strive to provide the best data for people’s needs. This puts publishers on a level playing field and allows the companies with the best data to naturally succeed. Along with that publishers can not only benefit from the dMRV utilizing the data but other organizations that might want their data (such as parametric insurance). When individuals can decide who gets access to their data, they can ensure it is used ethically. They can also willingly give access to their data to those attempting to create good causes. Analysis Reporting and verification utilize algorithms. Algorithms are a set of instructions followed to solve a problem or accomplish a task (types of algorithms include standard, machine learning and AI). They are used to process data or information. For example georeferenced imagery can be analyzed using an algorithm that detects if a tree is present in that imagery. Another example is an algorithm can choose which data sources are the most appropriate for evaluating a regenerative action based upon how these data sources did previously. This is more efficient than a human could do, reducing the dMRV costs. Previous MRV organizations have developed their own algorithms. Some of these algorithms are open source and will become part of the dMRV system if there is no conflict with the creators in doing so. Oftentimes it is only the MRV organization that developed the algorithm that uses it. Allowing more entities to utilize the MRV algorithm, “algorithms-as-a-service” (AaaS) have arisen as a business model. Aaas allows entities of very small to large financial backing to benefit from them. For example, a small business might not have the resources to hire a data scientist to build and train a machine learning model or maintain the infrastructure needed to store the data that the model would be trained on. However, with AaaS, they can simply subscribe to a service and use the algorithms that have been created by someone else. Now through decentralization, algorithm providers can offer their services in a trust minimized and automated way. Along with that they can help financially support the providers of the data that was used to train that algorithm, which in turn gives data providers an incentive to provide high-quality and unique data that otherwise wouldn’t be available for training. Algorithmic transparency allows regenerative actions to demonstrate the ecosystem services they provide in a trustless, decentralized and immutable manner. Which in turn will attract more ReFi investors to support these actions. The more funding that gets channeled towards regenerative actions, the more the dMRV system is used and with each iteration it improves. Infrastructure In order to host the data and distribute money to creators of algorithms, among other components of the dMRV system, decentralized infrastructure needs to be created. To permanently store the data collected, decentralized storage systems need to be utilized. For distributing that data to entities that would like to purchase it, data markets need to adequately display it. A new distributed system needs to be created for analyzing that data and paying for each time an analysis methodology is utilized. Some of these systems exist, however they can be improved upon to further support the dMRV system.

Revenue Sources This dMRV system will be created bottom up from individuals and software, these individuals are who we aim to get rewarded through this software system. The flow of this system is planned to be as follows. An entity pays for collection of data, entities affiliated with this dMRV system collect the data using techniques that are part of this system. The data goes to decentralized storage which is paid for, then the entity that pays for the data is able to access it. The data is interpreted via methodologies either that the entity has proprietary control over or that is open source and part of the dMRV system. If the method is open source, a donation is channeled to the creators of the method for its use. The collected data is also marketed in a data marketplace, when people use the data they pay for the use of it. This payment goes towards both the marketplace and the data creator. Cross Organizational Support Behind all of this are people. These people have formed their own decentralized organizations specializing in different aspects of the dMRV system. There are organizations specializing in data collection, analysis and domain experts. The organizations participating in the dMRV will continue to expand as the system builds continued support.

Map Link

Data Collectors Trust minimized data collection can be done through a combination of remote sensing, IoT, and human sensing (such as with smart-phones). These are the organizations that are currently the most prevalent in the web3 space doing work collecting data in each of these areas. Satellite- Shamba The first company to launch a specialized geospatial oracle on the Chainlink network. They have extensive experience in web2 geospatial and information technology and are continuously innovating and pushing the boundaries of these spaces for web3. They have a focus on creating real world applications for this data.

Drone- VillageGrid Focused on finding web3 solutions for existing rural electrification projects, VillageGrid is using drone produced GeoTIFFs as NFTs to capture before-and-after progress updates of rural solar farms, and then exploring blockchain-based energy metering systems to improve the current billing services for said solar farms. IOT- Athena Specializing in the deployment of edge computation networks, uncertainty accounting , and the development implementation of algorithmic fairness frameworks. Human Sensing- ORGO A simplified structure or system for recruiting volunteers, collecting data, managing workflows, and rewarding contributors. Data Analysis Once the data has been collected it needs to be cleaned and further analyzed. These are the organizations creating methodologies for this. Astral Promoting the evolution of an open, human-centered and composable location-based decentralized web. They have created specialized data storage systems, data registries, and a suite of geometric and topological analysis methodologies in Solidity Spatial.sol Algovera A cooperative of people working to develop useful AI apps. Currently in the process of building systems for rewarding algorithm creators for each time their algorithm is used. Infrastructure To properly store, market and maintain the data and algorithms decentralized infrastructure needs to be created. These are the organizations currently doing work in this field. dClimate A transparent, decentralized marketplace that allows participants to buy and share data and contribute to an open ecosystem of data-driven climate resilience applications. Ocean Protocol A data market app to publish, discover, and consume data in a secure, privacy-preserving fashion. Arweave A decentralized data storage system for permanently storing data. Has enabled the backbone for profit sharing when algorithms are used. IPFS A decentralized data storage system for permanently storing data. Allowing for upgrading of data without overwriting. Domain Experts For each regenerative action type there are domain specialists. For example an ocean scientist is unlikely to know how to appropriately value tree planting, vice versa. In order to develop analysis algorithms appropriate to each regenerative action type, this specialized knowledge needs to be brought into the dMRV system. As these domain experts are the ones likely to start creating tokens from the dMRV system (onboarding non web3 regenerative actions into this space) it is encouraged that a percent of their revenue goes towards supporting the dMRV system and if able provide grants for supporting the initial start of this. These organizations will not have control of the dMRV treasury.\
Moonjelly A decentralized ocean conservation organization that has world class scientists and data intelligence personnel, specializing in the ocean, throughout the organization. Linwood Pendleton Ph.d. is an example of such a scientist. Has experts in the field of ocean monitoring and verification.\
Endangered Species Foundation Endangered species are especially fragile and need extreme support as quick as possible in order to maintain and increase their population before they go extinct. This organization is reevaluating the biodiversity that these species represent by creating web3 assets (NFTs, tokens). This organization brings specialized knowledge into this area and is working on the ground to ensure that the endangered species are being protected, along with collecting data about the regenerative actions being done around these species. Open Forest Protocol This organization brings specialized knowledge sets for reforestation and afforestation projects throughout the world. Regen Regen aligns economics with ecology to drive regenerative land management. Regen has a specialization currently in regenerative agricultural techniques. BasinDAO This organization comes in with real property values and the legal implications behind acquiring rights to properties. Currently specializing in the analysis of watershed (or Basin) level regeneration. Kolektivo Curacao has been benefiting from the efforts of this organization for the last couple of years. From this the organization gained substantial expertise in working with local communities and creating local economic systems. Avano Avano is creating a NFT layer for supporting regenerative actions. Avano has specialized in utilizing the InVEST toolset from the Natural Capital project for analyzing regenerative actions and the monetary value of ecosystem services provided by them. Faq What Differentiates This from What Regen and OFP Are Doing? Communication and coordination between different methodologies that are being created and accepted forms of standards. Digital Gaia, dClimate, and Ocean Protocol are creating rating systems for methodologies. Onboarding system for potentially web2 to web3. Coordination of pilots for these methods to utilize. Automating this with machine learning, etc.\
There is a huge resource requirement to create new MRV methods. If the methods are not used the resources would be spent with no return on those resources. How is this problem dealt with? Formation of new methodologies who want to fund that, potential nft fundraiser for each new methodology. Work with web2 organizations to create new methodologies. Parametric insurance, impact NFT games, ecosystem service token creation, can the cost of the MRV and new credit methodologies revenue earned be put towards new MRV and the landowners.\
How will these different organizations be incentivized to contribute their expertise for designing this system in a meaningful manner (and scalable across different project types and regions)? How were these NFTs created? The creation of a website, grants strategy?
